over the last year or so I have started
to think for the first time in my life
that nuclear power might actually be a
thing that's going to come back like
there's been so much conversation about
this arguing and advocacy on both sides
but now a bunch of forces are conspiring
together to maybe have this actually be
the time and maybe it isn't just going
to be maybe it already is we're just not
looking in the right places this is a
story of China of artificial
intelligence of carbon dioxide's
inability to be transparent to infrared
light and first and foremost it is a
story of this duck this duck this duck
this one and this one this is the duck
curve and it's important this uh is
California's duct curve it's a mess this
duck curve is what happens if you look
at how people consume power and like
what kind of power is needed as you go
through the day people do the stuff that
they do like at 2: a.m. they're not
consuming very much power but power is
being consumed by various things but
then as power like shoots up then in the
middle of the day that's also when
there's solar power and that's amazing
but then in the night between 6:00 and
9900 p.m. people are at home using a lot
of electricity and there isn't very much
solar power and that is a problem now a
lot of the duck can get shaved off and
in fact probably all of the head of this
duck we want to cut the head of the duck
and probably all the head of the duck
can be cut off by batteries and other
power storage methods but not all of us
live in California I live in a place
where you don't just need to cut the
head off the duck there's also a
seasonal duck curve I can actually open
it up for you right now I can look at my
solar panels generation and I can show
you a problem that killing a duck cannot
solve this is my solar power generation
for last year you can see that my
production in the the seventh month of
the year whichever when that is I think
July is 1.28 megawatt hours and then in
the least month which is January it's
Montana the sun barely comes up and when
it does it's cloudy that was
277 kilowatt hours so there's a big
shift there that's like a 4X difference
and so I'd have to have four times the
amount of solar panels as I have to
produce the amount in January as I
produce in July worse than that all the
months nearby January all the way up to
the fourth one which is April and the
11th one which is God I'm so bad at
months
the November if they just have done it
by the numbers that would have made
things much easier for me October OCT
for8 being the 10th month you roome
but that's not the point the point is
that in order to give people power when
they need it which is all of the time
you have to be able to produce power
when people need it which is all of the
time and there are people who argue that
a lot of this problem or all of this
problem is going to get solved by power
storage we're going to be able to
produce so much Renewable Power through
wind and solar we're going to store that
and all kinds of of weird ways batteries
and thermal storage and gravity storage
I just don't think that we'll be able to
store as much power as we need and that
it will be good to have Bas load power
and there are two I think two just two
options for future baseload power base
load power is power that can is produced
all of the time and also there's like
some base load power that you could turn
on and off when you need it we're going
to need some what they call clean firm
power clean fir of that it's clean
because it's not fossil fuels it's not
emitting carbon dioxide it's firm
because you can get it whenever you need
it you don't have to like hope and you
don't have to like charge a battery and
then be like oh no if we run out we run
out what happens in the fifth month of
winter like I feel like people aren't
from Montana is it just me like there
are Canadians they're real so we need
clean firm and there are as by my count
basically two kinds of clean firm power
that I could rely on in the future like
that we will be able to turn on when we
need it whenever we need it because I
don't really think that capturing the
carbon dioxide coming out of natural gas
plants is the way forward I like I don't
think it is I I could be wrong they keep
saying it's going to be a thing than it
ever is it's very hard to do it's hard
to pull off one is geothermal power
which is in its infancy in most places
in places where it's like
extraordinarily suitable to it there's
lots of very near to the surface heat
like Iceland that's great but we're not
going to convert Yellowstone National
Park into a well actually this is
interesting we're not going to convert
it into a giant J thermal power plant
though NASA does have a plan to if we
need to siphon the heat away from
Yellowstone National Park and capture
geothermal energy that could produce
like as much power as the entire us
needs but we would have to build a bunch
of geothermal power plants inside of
Yellowstone National Park which I don't
think would go over very well unless we
were pretty sure we were about to all
die and we're not we think that the
super volcano still has quite a ways to
go before it pops off but there are a
bunch of new kinds of geothermal that
are more exciting that I'm going to I'll
talk there's lots of YouTube videos
about them but that's not this video is
about this video is about nuclear power
and whether or not it's going to make a
comeback and I have predictions about
why it is but before we get to that it
is possible that you're thinking right
now boy the grid sure is going to keep
getting cleaner and cleaner but my car
isn't so maybe I should start saving up
to get myself an electric car I
encourage you to do that and to help
with that there's today's sponsor rocket
money rocket money is the personal
finance app that helps you cancel
subscriptions lower bills and manage
your money better you can go and look at
all of your subscriptions in one place
and at the top it will tell you how much
you're paying per month and you can
multiply that by 12 and ask yourself the
hard question do I want it to be that
number you can upload a photo of a bill
and with a few Taps it can help you
negotiate a lower rate you can lower
your bills and set budgets so that you
can achieve your financial goals rocket
money has helped save its customers up
to $740 a year when they use all the
premium features with over $500 million
in canceled subscriptions to save more
and spend less join the over 5 million
members using rocket money today go to
Rocket money.com green or just click the
link in the description to get started
for free free you can also unlock even
more features with premium that's rocket
money.com slank green to get started for
free now back to the video first if we
type in China nuclear power plants and
we're going to say graph give me a graph
of China nuclear power plants nuclear
power generation in China that is going
up Billion kilowatt hours uh Bill
billions of kilowatt hours that's a lot
of them we've also got China's
electricity Generation by fuel type
we've got coal still a lot and still
growing as of 2021 but you've also got
nuclear which is an increasing Little
Slice here not very big number of
nuclear ah this is a great graph nuclear
reactors 2023 China total and under
construction the United States under
construction China H that's a lot right
now under construction Japan had a lot
of nuclear power plants shut nearly all
of them down in after Fukushima uh but
that is again growing whereas in that
time China has now exceeded what Japan
ever was and here's uh new starts of of
nuclear construction around the world
and you can see that it's all China it's
just all China there there are some
other places but pretty much every year
since 2008 China has had more nuclear
power plants begin construction than the
entire rest of the world combined and
it's worth looking at the us where we
had a huge number of nuclear power
plants going online up through 1990 and
then none pretty much none though we
have had one new one go online just now
the voked old unit three which is a big
deal like we actually did get another
one online but I think that the United
States government uh is a little bit
looking at what China is up to right now
and maybe some people on one side of the
aisle are thinking boy it would be good
to create a big Mega project that would
employ people and also compete with
China I guess probably both sides of the
aisle are pretty much feeling that Vibe
and then one has the extra incen of
being like Oh my God there's a crisis in
the climate and we need to produce power
especially as demand for electricity
goes up which is going to happen for two
reasons when we thought it was just one
we thought there was going to be an
electrification of a lot of
infrastructure including Vehicles
including heat both in your home from
heat pumps and Industrial heat which is
going to require a lot of electricity if
we Electrify it which we should
industrial heat is just heating stuff up
for industrial purposes whether that's
boiling off orange juice to make
concentrate or doing all the stuff you
need to make steel but there's also
another reason why we suddenly need to
make more electricity or want to and
we're going to talk about that soon but
first we have to see what the US
government has actually done to address
this and maybe open up the possibility
for more nuclear to be built in the US
are there actually steps being taken
this is part of my case and June 6th of
2024 Congress passes the advance act to
facilitate us development of advanced
nuclear reactors this was passed by both
houses of Congress and then signed by by
Joe Biden and it is now a law it is a
change thing that is intended to boost
nuclear reactor deployment in the us
both of existing Technologies and
potentially new newer Technologies it's
basically a regulatory reform thing the
big reason why we think the graph went
like this is because we suddenly got new
regulations on nuclear power but also
because people's opinions changed like
people wanted it less something
relatively important happened around 198
6 that maybe resulted in there being a
little bit less support for nuclear
reactors and that was Chernobyl and then
you know the ones that were uh in
construction got completed but then a
lot of them didn't now this is kind of
silly I think because chernobyl's design
was very different from every nuclear
reactor we've ever built in America
we've never built one like that we build
them a different way that's safer but
there's also lots of ways to build
nuclear power plants it's very difficult
to regulate there was lots of energy to
be like let's do it in the safest way
possible and that meant let's do it in
the most expensive way possible like
like that you know there's always going
to be something else you could do to
make something safer and so if you have
to have it be as safe as possible then
it will not be cost competitive with
things that are less safe like Coal
Power Which is less safe than nuclear
kills way more people let's look at
those numbers what would you say is the
most dangerous source of power we've got
R Wen data here it's Cal by a long shot
so they peel people both from accidents
and air pollution coal mining is
extraordinarily difficult but also air
pollution kills a lot of people and also
they kill people through greenhouse gas
emissions you've also got oil quite
dangerous biomass quite dangerous
natural gas not as dangerous from
accidents and air pollution because it's
actually a very clean burning fuel but
very dangerous from a climate science
perspective and then you got our Little
Darlings here wind nuclear solar very
few deaths from accidents and pollution
and amazingly enough nuclear has the
lowest carbon impact of all them because
you have to build the solar power and
the wind power and that requires energy
that is currently not produced renewably
nuclear energy is very safe now all of
these all of these are far safer than
fossil fuels but nuclear
power I'm sorry it's super safe from
what we could tell there is one thing I
don't like about nuclear power which is
it requires there to be more nuclear
fuel in the world and that can be used
for various things if they it falls into
the wrong hands now you can do
everything you can to have it not fall
into the wrong hands but like that's
scary I don't love that I don't love
having it in Russia which is not like
the most safe place it feels like but
the US government both houses of
Congress both sides of the aisle and Joe
Biden with his pen have decided that we
want to do things to incentivize nuclear
power and that's actually happening so
the government's doing it in part in
response to China in part in response to
the need for there to be more
electricity but there's a final force
going on here which I've alluded to
several times and it is that we thought
electricity generation was going to go
up for one reason the electrification of
infrastructure but it is also going to
go up for a new reason which is that
tech companies the you know some of the
most powerful institutions in our
culture and also some of the most
well-funded ones are having a big fight
over who's going to win the AI battle
and AI training specifically but also
just the use of it requires a huge
amount of electricity and not in a way
that you can manage you can't can't say
I'm going to train my AI models when the
solar panels are out for a very
important reason which is that the
expensive part of training an AI model
isn't the electricity it's the chips you
get these chips from Nvidia that are
like good at training AI for reasons I
don't understand but I believe you
because obviously you're spending many
billions of dollars on them they buy the
chips and then they have to use the
chips all of the time because if they
don't use them all of the time they are
not getting a good return on their
investment if you only use the chips
during the time of the day when the
solar power is happening then you're
only getting what 30 40% of the value of
your chips no you're not going to do
that you're a tech company that is now
in a battle for its life to change
everything from the ground up whether or
not it happens or not they think that it
will and they're fighting for it and
they're telling their investors that
this is the fight that they need to have
and all these companies previous to this
sudden explosion in the need for new
electricity use for the training and use
of large language models and other
generative AI they all had these
commitments to not just be 100% clean
power not just offset their emissions
but to have
247 all of the time to only be using
clean power and they made these
commitments to you know their employees
and to the world and now they're not
going to be able to meet them and that
is why these companies are doing wild
things like Microsoft is restarting the
reactor at 3 Mile Island and also why
Amazon has just invested more than half
a billion dollars to develop small
modular reactors these are like little
nuclear reactors that are easier to kind
of mass-produced and then like plon down
in a place which people think could make
it cheaper rather than having to like
make every plant bespoke for the
specific area where you're going to put
it the way that they're doing this right
now is just natural gas they're like oh
my God we have to do this we have to do
it fast and they're all competing with
each other and like you know elon's X
they just they just brought a ton of
like local natural gas plants in like
super fast to generate electricity at
the data center without even getting
approval for it they're they're fighting
so hard for this and I am actually a
believer that that artificial
intelligence is going to be a very big
economic deal like I'm not I don't think
that this is like crypto I don't think
that it's like the other nonsense like
the metaverse like there's just been so
much nonsense lately but this feels this
feels really real to me I don't think
this is made up I think there's real
value here I don't know how we're going
to capture it I don't know if like the
way that we're doing right now is is
like going to be a giant bubble that
will explode and uh destroy everything
but I I think it's real I think this
product is real I don't love the way
that it's being done of course I've made
videos about that but this what Amazon's
doing isn't just investing in a company
to say hey maybe like my investment will
pay off sometime in the future they're
actually saying hey we're going to buy
these small nuclear reactors from you
you're going to make them we're going to
own them we're going to operate them and
they're going to power our data centers
so that's wild there's been so much time
that people have spent saying that small
modular reactors maybe will be a thing
someday and Amazon was just like all
right they're going to be a thing we're
going to make them a thing because we
need that clean firm power they need
Super firm power and they also want it
to be clean because they've made these
commitments I think Google is also done
a nuclear thing I don't know what it is
Google signed nuclear reactor deal with
so there also that was one day ago when
I recorded this video which is a while
ago because I've got a schedule Okay
Google also has a deal with fvo which is
a geothermal power company that I
mentioned earlier I may have said forvo
that's something else what's forvo that
I make that up I did I just made that up
it's not a thing I get that there are
reasons to be skeptical of nuclear power
it's not great when bad stuff happens to
him it's happened three times Three Mile
Island Fukushima and Chernobyl each time
pretty bad different levels of bad but
pretty bad but there are a bunch of like
lines pointing in a direction that
nuclear is going to be a bigger part of
our power mix in the future and I don't
mean Fusion I mean vision and they are
one China is building a lot of nuclear
reactors right now and including one
that's going to launch in 20125 that's a
entirely new kind of nuclear reactor
that uses molten salts instead of water
to carry around heat which is safer and
potentially cheaper for a bunch of
reasons but like you have to totally
redesign how you design your power plant
when you use molten salt the US wants to
be competitive with China and doesn't
like that they're getting better at
something while we aren't and so our
government is
changing the way that we're regulating
nuclear power I also think that people
now are just less worried about nuclear
power than they used to be and they are
more worried about climate change than
they ever have been I think that that is
a rational way to see things I think
that nuclear power is less scary than
climate change I think that we need
electricity and we should get more of it
fast in whatever way we can and I think
that these regulatory changes will make
nuclear power less expensive I also
think that the te World getting into
nuclear and saying we will come to your
place and build data centers in your
state if you build nuclear power plants
could be a really big deal I think that
them buying small modular nuclear
reactors could be a really big deal like
that's going to create a first market
for these things so that they can
continue to hopefully ideally decrease
the price of them and it solves a real
problem that I think if we wait for
geothermal to solve it we might have to
wait too long nuclear is just obviously
a much more mature technology than the
kind of geothermal that we would need to
be scalable there's certainly mature
geothermal but it requires there to be
lots of hot rocks very close to the
surface which is not the case everywhere
whereas this new company fero which I
would love you there's great videos you
don't I don't have to make one you can
go watch a video on fvo and how it works
is a geothermal power plant that you
could put basically anywhere you don't
it doesn't rely on there being specific
geologic features first thorium molten
salt nuclear power station it's
happening you guys it's really going to
be a thing this is again kind of
shocking that this is happening like
I've heard about thorum reactors being
maybe built for 30 years and there's
finally going to be a real one online
and you can see yes I am interested in
purchasing fossils Google's like I know
what kind of nerd you are and then
there's one final thing that is a a like
a reason why I think I think this is
undere examined but a reason why I think
nuclear power might be about to get a
little bit of a foothold which just that
a lot of coal fired power plants are
retiring which means one that power
isn't going to be being put on the grid
but two all of the equipment and
infrastructure is already there in a
place that isn't going to be producing
power anymore so you have all these big
power lines heading into a centralized
location you have turbines that you
might be able to reuse you have a
community that is reliant on there being
a power station there that's used to
having a power station there and so you
can in like just convert an old Coal
Fired power plant into a nuclear power
plant and use a lot of the same
equipment because it's just boil like
all of the parts where you're just
boiling water are the same all the parts
where you're just taking a lot of
electricity out of one place and
distributing it to a wide area those are
the same you can reuse a lot of that
same stuff and so if we're retiring all
these cold fired power plants we have a
bunch of infrastructure ready for
something else to plug into them now you
can have that be natural gas like it can
be you could convert it to natural gas
and we have I think we've done that Coal
Power Plant convert Natural Gas please
figure that out more than 100 Coal Fired
power plants have been replaced or
converted to Natural Gas since 2011 so
that like makes sense but you can also
do this with nuclear and I wonder have
we ever done that I don't think we have
but I think that we're looking at doing
it converting coal plants to nuclear
could save new construction cost the doe
report also found nuclear plants could
save up to 35% on construction costs
depending on how much of the existing
site assets could be repurposed from the
retired Coal Fired power plants so
that's is a thing that's also a thing
now a lot of people are going to want to
have that be gas because that is the
most mature clear obvious technology to
convert to
but if converting it to a nuclear plant
instead will convince Google or Amazon
or open AI to open a data center in your
town and hire a bunch of people to like
have high-paying tech jobs then you
might do that instead and also you have
these new regulations that make that a
little bit easier also you have this
competition from China that's maybe
adding new insight into how to build
safe effective less expensive nuclear
power plants all these things feel to me
like they are adding up toward a future
where we have gone from Decades of just
no nuclear power to potentially it being
a really important part of the power mix
in the next 10 years and I don't know if
it's going to happen for sure I'd love
for geothermal to catch up F so fast
that it obviates the need for that that
all the people who work in the fossil
fuel industry are like no we're going to
convert over to geothermal and we're
going to make that happen and we're
going to make it cheaper than nuclear
faster the nuclear can scale up that is
what I want to happen I do I'd rather
that I think geothermal will be a better
long-term power source but I it's just
not anywhere near as mature as nuclear
is right now so if I had to put money on
it I would put money on the fact that
we're moving into a world with a lot
more nuclear power and that is the end
of my video